---
source: https://soar.eecs.umich.edu/OtherAcademicGroups
tags:
    - institutions
---

# Other Academic Research Groups Using Soar

University of Michigan: Our research focuses on extensions to the Soar
architecture and the cognitive capabilities made possible by Soar. Recent
architectural research includes work on reinforcement learning, episodic memory,
semantic memory, mental imagery, and motor control. Our research on cognitive
capabilities includes work on learning by situated interactive instruction,
learning relational and continuous action models, and robot control. We work on
a variety of domains that include video games, linguistics tasks, mobile robots,
and planning tasks.

[Penn State](http://acs.ist.psu.edu/): People in our lab help move the field of
cognitive science. Our projects are focused on models that learn, ranging from
how to provide models access to interfaces to analyzing the effects of caffeine
on cognition to determining how children develop through the modeling of their
development.  Other projects include the development of the Psychological Soar
Tutorial and the Soar FAQ. For more information contact frank.ritter at psu.edu.


[University of Portland](https://www.up.edu/directory/Andrew-Nuxoll.html): Research is in
improving the effectiveness of the episodic memory system. Much of the work is
done external to Soar while honoring architectural requirements of Soar. Recent
projects include: a survey of forgetting mechanisms, using memories to build
plans, using sequences of episodes to overcome state aliasing and using
experience to discover the relative importance of various WMEs that comprise an
agent's episodes. Many of the insights from this research have been embodied in
an advanced episodic memory system called Ziggurat. Throughout this process, the
hardest part of creating an effective episodic memory system remains the same:
creating an effective, domain-independent algorithm to select the best memory
from a given cue.


[Pace University](http://csis.pace.edu/robotlab/projects.html): An Intelligent
Soar Assistant for a Virtual World Abe Guerra has built an assistant for IBM's
virtual world. His agent uses Soar to reason about what a user needs and guides
the user through the virtual world. The assistant interacts with the user
through typed natural language commands, and can also assist with commands for
using the virtual world interface. Here is an introductory paper on his project.
There is also a movie of his agent navigating and a movie of his agent assisting
a customer. A Soar Agent for Playing Poker Bob Follek has implemented an
architecture for an autonomous poker player. His SoarBot uses Soar to play poker
with the poker server set up by the University of Alberta Computer Poker
Research Group. Bob can be reached at bob@codeblitz.com Researchers use Soar to
build an intelligent assistant for IBM's virtual world. Agent reasons about what
a user needs and guides the user through the virtual world. The assistant
interacts with the user through typed natural language commands, and can also
assist with commands for using the virtual world interface.  The research group
also uses Soar to implement an architecture for an autonomous poker player. The
agent uses Soar to play poker with the poker server set up by the University of
Alberta Computer Poker Research Group.  

University of Southern California
and the Institute for Creative Technologies

[Bar Ilan University](http://www.cs.biu.ac.il/~galk/), Israel is home to the
[MAVERICK group](https://u.cs.biu.ac.il/~kaminkg/maverick/), which conducts research in
social intelligence, multi-agent and multi-robot systems, and plan recognition.
Work in Soar has focused on developing Soar-based teamwork capabilities for
modeling para-military units, multi-agent plan recognition and mirroring, and
social comparison for groups.  